README.md, before:

# Using AWS Elastic Beanstalk to deploy Fastapi app: Fastapi_songs
# Introduction
This is a personal workshop following tutorial<sub>[1]</sub>, implementing a FastAPI application (_FastAPI_songs_) and deploying it to AWS using Elastic Beanstalk. While following the tutorial, I also took notes on every issue I encountered and the lessons I learned. <br >

# Fastapi Songs Application
The `fastapi_songs` application has two simple pages (`127.0.0.1:8000` and `127.0.0.1:8000/songs/`), and both returning data in JSON format. The entry page simply returns _name_ and _Fastapi_ key-value pair, while the _/songs/_ page returns preset song list with _title_, _artist_, and _release_ _date_ fields. The application serves as a sample for deployment on AWS, and its project structure is well-suited for use as a reference for common usage pattern.<br >
## Structure
fastapi_songs/<br >
.<br >
├── src<br >
│   └── fastapi_songs<br >
│       ├── \_\_init\_\_.py<br >
│       ├── database.py<br >
│       ├── init_db.py<br >
│       ├── main.py<br >
│       └── models.py<br >
├── .ebextensions<br >
│   └── 01_fastapi.config<br >
├── .elasticbeanstalk<br >
│   └── config.yml<br >
└── README.md<br >
## File: main.py
The main.py register several instances and functions as following:<br >
1. app = FastAPI(): The FastAPI() instance which allows functions decorated by @app become FastAPI.<br >
2. @app.get("/") <br >
   def root():<br >
  The app root entry ("/") for testing and returning JSON {"name": "FastAPI_songs"}.<br >
3. @app.get("/songs/") <br >
  def display_songs(db: Session=Depends(get_db)): <br >
  The app display_songs entry ("/songs/") to query preset songs list from database.<br >
  - Lessons learned - `db: Session=Depends(get_db)`: `db: Session` is argument name and type is Session object, and `Depends` is in Dependency Injection System in FastAPI which is a shortcut to call `get_db()` and return session as the function argument db.<sub>[2]</sub><br >
  In summary, `:` means __type__, `=` means __default value__, `Depends` is tool function in FastAPI.<sub>[2][3]</sub><br >
4. def get_db(): <br >
  The get_db function starts a database session to handle connection and interaction between app and database.<sub>[4]</sub><br >
  - Lessons learned - `yield db`: in addition to return db to request handler, `yield` pause and give control to request handler, and continue the program after it done.<sub>[5][6]</sub><br >
   
### SQLAlchemy
SQLAlchemy is a Python library for working with database.<sub>[7]</sub> It includes several important tools for establishing connections and manipulating data in databases. Some key functions and classes include:<br >
1. `sqlalchemy.create_engine()`: Establish a call as bridge to database. This includes creating a dialect to the database and a pool for establishing connection to local host.<sub>[8]</sub><br >
2. `sqlalchemy.orm.sessionmaker()`: The orm stands for Object-Relational Mapping. This mapping maps database table (SQL) to Python classes and records (rows) into Python object. The sessionmaker generates a session object to interact (add, commit, query, and close) with the database.<sub>[9]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned - SQLAlchemy connection workflow: create engine -> create session -> interact with database<br >
3. `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()`: The declarative_base declares a base class to let us inherit it and customized our database structure.<sub>[11]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned - SQLAlchemy create SQL table workflow:<sub>[10][11][12]</sub><br >
     (1) declare base class<br >
     (2) define customized class and inherit base class (register as a table model)<br >
     (3) using `metadata.create_all()` to check classes being defined and convert to SQL `CREATE TABLE` statements and create tables<br >

In addition, SQLAlchemy provides schema related classes such as `Column`, `Date`, `Integer`, `String` to help define and regulate database structures.<sub>[13][14][15]</sub><br >
### SQLite
- Lesson learned - SQLite database URL setting:<br >
- Issue: After setting up the app, I noticed the init_db.py didn't create preset data into database.<br >
- Reason: I realized the project structure I used is __src layout__ compare to __flat layout__ which the tutorial provided. Because the SQLite used __relative path__, src layout turned out init_db.py created database which `display_songs()` in main.py couldn't reach.<br >
- Fix: I changed from __relative path__ to __absolute path__ for SQLite.<br >
  - Original SQLite path: `"sqlite:///./default.db"`<br >
  - Explanation: The `"sqlit:///"` is sqlite path prefix used in SQLAlchemy. The `"./"` means current directory.<sub>[16]</sub><br >
  - Fixed SQLite path:<br >
  ```python
  import os
  BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))))
  DB_PATH = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "default.db")
  SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URL = f"sqlite:///{DB_PATH}"
  ```
  - Explanation:<br >
  1. `__file__` is a python built-in variable which stores current module path when being executed.<sub>[17][18]</sub><br >
  2. `os.path.abspath(__file__)` returns executed module absolute path. Because `__file__` can be relative or absolute path depends on Python version, I used `os.path.abspath(__file__)` to make sure we get absolute path.<sub>[19]</sub><br >
  3. `os.path.dirname(current_path)` returns directory name of current path which means it returns path one up layer.<sub>[20][21]</sub><br >
  4. `os.path.join(var1,...)` can receive any number path variables and add them up as a path sequentially with "/" between each of them. If one path variable is absolute path (has `/` or `C:\`), the path variables before the absolute path will be discarded.<sub>[22]</sub><br >
### Uvicorn
Uvicorn is an ASGI compatible web server which helps receive browser/client requests and hand over to FastAPI to process requests.<sub>[23]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned: Run FastAPI with uvicorn using Poetry:<br >
- Issue: Bash: `(venv)$ poetry run uvicorn fastapi_songs.main:app --reload --port 8000`
- Reason: Though the tutorial showed command to execute FastAPI with Uvicorn, with Poetry, I was seeking a way to write code in main.py and simply run command `Poetry run fastapi_songs`<br >
- Fix<sub>[24]</sub>:
  ```python
  import uvicorn
  def main():
    """Launch 'poetry run fastapi_songs' at root."""
    uvicorn.run("fastapi_songs.main:app", host="127.0.0.1", port=8000, reload=True)
  ```
  - Explanation: Instead of inputting command, I wrapped the commands into main() with detail, such as uvicorn.run(file string, host=, port=, reeload=) to be simplifed executing command in bash.<sub>[24]</sub><br >
## File: database.py<br >
The database.py declares default database path for SQLite, creates SQLAlchemy engine, session, and declarative_base for further use in models.py, init_db.py, and main.py.<br >
## File: models.py<br >
The models.py inherits Base from database.py and define Song's database structure. The Song class defines the schema which includes __id__, __title__, __artist__, and __release\_date__ for each column and will store in database.<br >
1. Lesson learned: Why do we need declare \_\_tablename\_\_?
- Issue: When following tutorial, I didn't see any variable used \_\_tablename\_\_ once it declared, and I have a question why we should declared it.<br >
- Reason: When we define the data structure that inherits Base, the class (data structure) is mapped to the table in SQLite using \_\_tablename\_\_ by SQLAlchemy. Although SQLAlchemy will auto-generat \_\_tablename\_\_ (default is class name with lowercase and pluralized), declaring when I write the data structure class can potentially prevent naming conflict and model-table mismatch.<sub>[25]</sub><br > 
- Fix: I followed the tutorial and declared `__tablename__ = "songs"`
2. Lesson learned: The update of `sqlalchemy.Column` and `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()`<br >
- Issue: The `sqlalchemy.Column` and `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()` is old style in declareing column and declarative base.<br >
- Reason: Althouugh the update style in __SQLAlchemy 2.0+__ is `sqlalchemy.mapped_column` and `sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase()`, the SQLAlchemy version in tutorial is 1.4.32, so I followed the tutorial to continue use `Column` and `declarative_base()` in this project.<sub>[26][27]</sub><br >
# AWS Elastic Beanstalk
What is Elastic Beanstalk?   Elastic Beanstalk is a __Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)__ that helps users to deploy their applications on AWS while integrating multiple AWS services. In this project, the main AWS services I used include, __Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)__, Relational Database Service (RDS)__, and __Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)__. I used Elastic Beanstalk to deploy my apps, and while I selected `db.t3.micro` as my database instance class, the Elastic Beanstalk automatically selected `t3.micro, t3.small` as my EC2 instance type and assigned me EC2 when I deployed applications.<sub>[1][28]</sub><br >
To utilize Elastic Beanstalk, I followed tutorial to install Elastic Beanstalk command line interface (EB CLI).<sub>[29][30][31]</sub> The EB CLI is a tool let me setup, configure, deploy, and manage my Elastic Beanstalk application in linux.<sub>[30]</sub><br >
## Initialize Project
To initialize my project, I ran `eb init`, and CLI prompts:<br >
1. Select Default Region: Tokyo, Japan <br >
2. What's you application name (default: fastapi_songs): press Enter for default <br >
3. What's Platform and Platform Branch: Python 3.11 running on 64-bit Amazon Linux 2023 <br >
4. Codecommit: no (followed the tutorial) <br >
5.SSH to connect to EC2 instance: yes (followed the tutorial)<br >
6. Ask for Keypair: I additionally generated an RSA SSH Keypair and imported as follows: <br >
- Generate RSA SSH Keypair: <br >
```Bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -f ~/.ssh/eb_keypair
```
- Import the Key pair to EC2: <br >
```Bash
aws ec2 import-key-pair \
  --key-name eb_keypair \
  --public-key-material fileb://~/.ssh/eb_keypair.pub
```
After `eb init`, my project generated `config.yml` under directory `.elasticbeanstalk`. <br >
My `config.yml`: <br >
```Python
branch-defaults:
  main:
    environment: fastapi-songs-dev
    group_suffix: null
global:
  application_name: fastapi_songs
  branch: null
  default_ec2_keyname: aws-eb
  default_platform: Python 3.11 running on 64bit Amazon Linux 2023
  default_region: ap-northeast-1
  include_git_submodules: true
  instance_profile: null
  platform_name: null
  platform_version: null
  profile: eb-cli
  repository: null
  sc: git
  workspace_type: Application
```
While setting up my app on AWS, I encountered several issues and took note as below: <br >
1. Lesson learned: Order to setup Python, virtual environment, EB CLI.<br >
- Issue: I noticed that there was no Python under my WSL, and the instruction asked to install EB CLI under virtual environment with python.<br >
- Reason: My Python was installed under Windows, and this is the first project I started under WSL which neither Python and virtual environment were installed.<br >
- Fix: I chose to install pyenv which provide both Python and venv.<sub>[32]</sub> After that, I further installed EB CLI under virtual environment.<br >
2. Lesson learned: When I `eb init` and selected aws default region, the CLI prompts:<br >
     > You have not yet set up your credentials or your credentials are incorrect<br >
     > You must provide your credentials.<br >
     > (aws-access-id):<br >
- Issue: The Elastic Beanstalk CLI (eb) cannot find my AWS credentials.<br >
- Reason: I didn't setup my aws access key and secret<br >
- Fix: I have to create an AWS __IAM user__ with access key in aws console.<sub>[33]</sub> To do that:<br >
   1. I went to AWS console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ <br >
   2. Selected my account on _top right_ and selected __Security credentials__ <br >
   3. On left sidebar, I selected __Dashboard__ -> __Access Management__ -> __Users__ <br >
   4. I selected __Create User__, type User name:  _eb\_cli\_user_ -> __Next__ <br >
   5. In Permission Options, I selected __Attach policies directly__. Then search and add `AdministratorAccess-AWSElasticBeanstalk`, `AmazonEC2FullAccess` -> __Next__ -> __Create user__ <br >
   6. I selected _eb\_cli\_user_ and selected __Create access key__ in Summary<br >
   7. I selected __Command Line Interface (CLI)__ -> checked __Confirmation__ -> __Next__ <br >
   8. I left _Set description tag - optional_ empty -> __Create access key__ <br >
   9. After that, I got back to linux and `aws configure` and input: <br >
      > AWS Access Key ID [None]: <access-key-id> <br >
      > AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secret-access-key> <br >
      > Default region name [None]: <br >
      > Default output format [None]: json <br >
   10. Then I checked access key, secret key, and region setting by `aws configure list` <br >
   11. [optional]: To refresh aws cli, I `rm -rf ~/.aws/cli/cache` and restart shell by `exec $SHELL`
3. Lesson learned: After I input my AWS IAM user and access key, then I `eb init`, and the CLI prompts:<br >
   > not authorized to perform: s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls on resource: <br >
   > "arn:aws:s3:::elasticbeanstalk" because no identity-based policy allows the s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls action <br >
- Issue : Elastic Beanstalk uses an S3 bucket to store my app versions and environment data, but it failed <br >
- Reason: My IAM user (eb_cli_user) does not have permission to creates or configures S3 bucket.<br >
- Fix: I have to create permissions `s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls` at:<sub>[34]</sub><br >
   1. AWS IAM console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam
   2. On left sidebar, I selected __Dashboard__ -> __Access Management__ -> __Users__ <br >
   3. I selected _eb\_cli\_user_ and in __Permissions policies__, I selected __Add permissions__ -> __Create inline policy__ <br >
   4. I selected __JSON__ in _Policy editor_ and added:<br >
   ```JSON
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Action": [
           "s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls"
         ],
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::elasticbeanstalk-*"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
   5. I clicked __Next__ and added Policy name `s3PutBucketOwnershipControls` -> __Create policy__ <br >
## EC2 SSH
## DNS CNAME Prefix
## Load Balancer
## gunicorn
## Docker
## PostgresSQL
## psycopg2-binary
## AWS RDS Postgres
# Lessons Learned
## os
## RDS variables

# Reference
[1] [Deploying a FastAPI Application to Elastic Beanstalk](https://testdriven.io/blog/fastapi-elastic-beanstalk/#environment-variables)<br >
[2] [Explicitly define datatype in a Python function](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/explicitly-define-datatype-in-a-python-function/)<br >
[3] [FastAPI - Dependencies](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/)<br >
[4] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Session Basics](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/session_basics.html)<br >
[5] [How to Use Generators and yield in Python](https://realpython.com/introduction-to-python-generators/#understanding-the-python-yield-statement)<br >
[6] [Dependencies with yield](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/dependencies-with-yield/)<br >
[7] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Overview](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/intro.html#documentation-overview)<br >
[8] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Engine Configuration](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/engines.html)<br >
[9] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Session API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/session_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.sessionmaker)<br >
[10] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Declarative API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/extensions/declarative/api.html#module-sqlalchemy.ext.declarative)<br >
[11] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Class Mapping API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase.metadata)<br >
[12] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Table Configuration with Declarative](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/declarative_tables.html#orm-declarative-metadata)<br >
[13] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Describing Databases with MetaData](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Column)<br >
[14] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - The Type Hierarchy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/type_basics.html)<br >
[15] [Column and Data Types in SQLAlchemy](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/column-and-data-types-in-sqlalchemy/)<br >
[16] [SQLAlchemy engine absolute path URL in windows](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19260067/sqlalchemy-engine-absolute-path-url-in-windows)<br >
[17] [what does the __file__ variable mean/do?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9271464/what-does-the-file-variable-mean-do)<br >
[18] [PEP 451 – A ModuleSpec Type for the Import System](https://peps.python.org/pep-0451/)<br >
[19] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.abspath(path)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.abspath)<br >
[20] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.dirname](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.dirname)<br >
[21] [Python | os.path.dirname() method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/python-os-path-dirname-method/)<br >
[22] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.join(path, /, *paths)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.join)<br >
[23] [What is the purpose of Uvicorn?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71435960/what-is-the-purpose-of-uvicorn)<br >
[24] [How to run FastAPI application from Poetry?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63809553/how-to-run-fastapi-application-from-poetry)<br >
[25] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - The table, or other from clause object](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_styles.html#the-table-or-other-from-clause-object)<br >
[26] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Declarative Table with mapped_column()](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/declarative_tables.html#orm-declarative-table)<br >
[27] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase)<br >
[28] [What is AWS Elastic Beanstalk?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/Welcome.html)<br >
[29] [aws-elastic-beanstalk-cli-setup](https://github.com/aws/aws-elastic-beanstalk-cli-setup)<br >
[30] [awsebcli 3.25](https://pypi.org/project/awsebcli/)<br >
[31] [Installing or updating to the latest version of the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)<br >
[32] [Github - pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)<br >
[33] [How do I get my AWS Access ID and Secret Key for EB CLI?](https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/zfr0m6/how_do_i_get_my_aws_access_id_and_secret_key_for/)<br >
[34] [Managing Elastic Beanstalk user policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/AWSHowTo.iam.managed-policies.html)<br >

Commit message:

docs: add steps for eb create

README.md, after:

# Using AWS Elastic Beanstalk to deploy Fastapi app: Fastapi_songs
# Introduction
This is a personal workshop following tutorial<sub>[1]</sub>, implementing a FastAPI application (_FastAPI_songs_) and deploying it to AWS using Elastic Beanstalk. While following the tutorial, I also took notes on every issue I encountered and the lessons I learned. <br >

# Fastapi Songs Application
The `fastapi_songs` application has two simple pages (`127.0.0.1:8000` and `127.0.0.1:8000/songs/`), and both returning data in JSON format. The entry page simply returns _name_ and _Fastapi_ key-value pair, while the _/songs/_ page returns preset song list with _title_, _artist_, and _release_ _date_ fields. The application serves as a sample for deployment on AWS, and its project structure is well-suited for use as a reference for common usage pattern.<br >
## Structure
fastapi_songs/<br >
.<br >
├── src<br >
│   └── fastapi_songs<br >
│       ├── \_\_init\_\_.py<br >
│       ├── database.py<br >
│       ├── init_db.py<br >
│       ├── main.py<br >
│       └── models.py<br >
├── .ebextensions<br >
│   └── 01_fastapi.config<br >
├── .elasticbeanstalk<br >
│   └── config.yml<br >
└── README.md<br >
## File: main.py
The main.py register several instances and functions as following:<br >
1. app = FastAPI(): The FastAPI() instance which allows functions decorated by @app become FastAPI.<br >
2. @app.get("/") <br >
   def root():<br >
  The app root entry ("/") for testing and returning JSON {"name": "FastAPI_songs"}.<br >
3. @app.get("/songs/") <br >
  def display_songs(db: Session=Depends(get_db)): <br >
  The app display_songs entry ("/songs/") to query preset songs list from database.<br >
  - Lessons learned - `db: Session=Depends(get_db)`: `db: Session` is argument name and type is Session object, and `Depends` is in Dependency Injection System in FastAPI which is a shortcut to call `get_db()` and return session as the function argument db.<sub>[2]</sub><br >
  In summary, `:` means __type__, `=` means __default value__, `Depends` is tool function in FastAPI.<sub>[2][3]</sub><br >
4. def get_db(): <br >
  The get_db function starts a database session to handle connection and interaction between app and database.<sub>[4]</sub><br >
  - Lessons learned - `yield db`: in addition to return db to request handler, `yield` pause and give control to request handler, and continue the program after it done.<sub>[5][6]</sub><br >
   
### SQLAlchemy
SQLAlchemy is a Python library for working with database.<sub>[7]</sub> It includes several important tools for establishing connections and manipulating data in databases. Some key functions and classes include:<br >
1. `sqlalchemy.create_engine()`: Establish a call as bridge to database. This includes creating a dialect to the database and a pool for establishing connection to local host.<sub>[8]</sub><br >
2. `sqlalchemy.orm.sessionmaker()`: The orm stands for Object-Relational Mapping. This mapping maps database table (SQL) to Python classes and records (rows) into Python object. The sessionmaker generates a session object to interact (add, commit, query, and close) with the database.<sub>[9]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned - SQLAlchemy connection workflow: create engine -> create session -> interact with database<br >
3. `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()`: The declarative_base declares a base class to let us inherit it and customized our database structure.<sub>[11]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned - SQLAlchemy create SQL table workflow:<sub>[10][11][12]</sub><br >
     (1) declare base class<br >
     (2) define customized class and inherit base class (register as a table model)<br >
     (3) using `metadata.create_all()` to check classes being defined and convert to SQL `CREATE TABLE` statements and create tables<br >

In addition, SQLAlchemy provides schema related classes such as `Column`, `Date`, `Integer`, `String` to help define and regulate database structures.<sub>[13][14][15]</sub><br >
### SQLite
- Lesson learned - SQLite database URL setting:<br >
- Issue: After setting up the app, I noticed the init_db.py didn't create preset data into database.<br >
- Reason: I realized the project structure I used is __src layout__ compare to __flat layout__ which the tutorial provided. Because the SQLite used __relative path__, src layout turned out init_db.py created database which `display_songs()` in main.py couldn't reach.<br >
- Fix: I changed from __relative path__ to __absolute path__ for SQLite.<br >
  - Original SQLite path: `"sqlite:///./default.db"`<br >
  - Explanation: The `"sqlit:///"` is sqlite path prefix used in SQLAlchemy. The `"./"` means current directory.<sub>[16]</sub><br >
  - Fixed SQLite path:<br >
  ```python
  import os
  BASE_DIR = os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(os.path.abspath(__file__))))
  DB_PATH = os.path.join(BASE_DIR, "default.db")
  SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URL = f"sqlite:///{DB_PATH}"
  ```
  - Explanation:<br >
  1. `__file__` is a python built-in variable which stores current module path when being executed.<sub>[17][18]</sub><br >
  2. `os.path.abspath(__file__)` returns executed module absolute path. Because `__file__` can be relative or absolute path depends on Python version, I used `os.path.abspath(__file__)` to make sure we get absolute path.<sub>[19]</sub><br >
  3. `os.path.dirname(current_path)` returns directory name of current path which means it returns path one up layer.<sub>[20][21]</sub><br >
  4. `os.path.join(var1,...)` can receive any number path variables and add them up as a path sequentially with "/" between each of them. If one path variable is absolute path (has `/` or `C:\`), the path variables before the absolute path will be discarded.<sub>[22]</sub><br >
### Uvicorn
Uvicorn is an ASGI compatible web server which helps receive browser/client requests and hand over to FastAPI to process requests.<sub>[23]</sub><br >
- Lesson learned: Run FastAPI with uvicorn using Poetry:<br >
- Issue: Bash: `(venv)$ poetry run uvicorn fastapi_songs.main:app --reload --port 8000`
- Reason: Though the tutorial showed command to execute FastAPI with Uvicorn, with Poetry, I was seeking a way to write code in main.py and simply run command `Poetry run fastapi_songs`<br >
- Fix<sub>[24]</sub>:
  ```python
  import uvicorn
  def main():
    """Launch 'poetry run fastapi_songs' at root."""
    uvicorn.run("fastapi_songs.main:app", host="127.0.0.1", port=8000, reload=True)
  ```
  - Explanation: Instead of inputting command, I wrapped the commands into main() with detail, such as uvicorn.run(file string, host=, port=, reeload=) to be simplifed executing command in bash.<sub>[24]</sub><br >
## File: database.py<br >
The database.py declares default database path for SQLite, creates SQLAlchemy engine, session, and declarative_base for further use in models.py, init_db.py, and main.py.<br >
## File: models.py<br >
The models.py inherits Base from database.py and define Song's database structure. The Song class defines the schema which includes __id__, __title__, __artist__, and __release\_date__ for each column and will store in database.<br >
1. Lesson learned: Why do we need declare \_\_tablename\_\_?
- Issue: When following tutorial, I didn't see any variable used \_\_tablename\_\_ once it declared, and I have a question why we should declared it.<br >
- Reason: When we define the data structure that inherits Base, the class (data structure) is mapped to the table in SQLite using \_\_tablename\_\_ by SQLAlchemy. Although SQLAlchemy will auto-generat \_\_tablename\_\_ (default is class name with lowercase and pluralized), declaring when I write the data structure class can potentially prevent naming conflict and model-table mismatch.<sub>[25]</sub><br > 
- Fix: I followed the tutorial and declared `__tablename__ = "songs"`
2. Lesson learned: The update of `sqlalchemy.Column` and `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()`<br >
- Issue: The `sqlalchemy.Column` and `sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.declarative_base()` is old style in declareing column and declarative base.<br >
- Reason: Althouugh the update style in __SQLAlchemy 2.0+__ is `sqlalchemy.mapped_column` and `sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase()`, the SQLAlchemy version in tutorial is 1.4.32, so I followed the tutorial to continue use `Column` and `declarative_base()` in this project.<sub>[26][27]</sub><br >
# AWS Elastic Beanstalk
What is Elastic Beanstalk?   Elastic Beanstalk is a __Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)__ that helps users to deploy their applications on AWS while integrating multiple AWS services. In this project, the main AWS services I used include, __Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)__, Relational Database Service (RDS)__, and __Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)__. I used Elastic Beanstalk to deploy my apps, and while I selected `db.t3.micro` as my database instance class, the Elastic Beanstalk automatically selected `t3.micro, t3.small` as my EC2 instance type and assigned me EC2 when I deployed applications.<sub>[1][28]</sub><br >
To utilize Elastic Beanstalk, I followed tutorial to install Elastic Beanstalk command line interface (EB CLI).<sub>[29][30][31]</sub> The EB CLI is a tool let me setup, configure, deploy, and manage my Elastic Beanstalk application in linux.<sub>[30]</sub><br >
## Initialize Project
To initialize EB CLI configuration on my project, I ran `eb init`, and CLI prompts:<br >
1. Select Default Region: Tokyo, Japan <br >
2. What's you application name (default: fastapi_songs): press Enter for default <br >
3. What's Platform and Platform Branch: Python 3.11 running on 64-bit Amazon Linux 2023 <br >
4. Codecommit: no (followed the tutorial) <br >
5.SSH to connect to EC2 instance: yes (followed the tutorial)<br >
6. Ask for Keypair: I additionally generated an RSA SSH Keypair and imported as follows: <br >
- Generate RSA SSH Keypair: <br >
```Bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -f ~/.ssh/eb_keypair
```
- Import the Key pair to EC2: <br >
```Bash
aws ec2 import-key-pair \
  --key-name eb_keypair \
  --public-key-material fileb://~/.ssh/eb_keypair.pub
```
After `eb init`, my project generated `config.yml` under directory `.elasticbeanstalk`. <br >
My `config.yml`: <br >
```Python
branch-defaults:
  main:
    environment: fastapi-songs-dev
    group_suffix: null
global:
  application_name: fastapi_songs
  branch: null
  default_ec2_keyname: aws-eb
  default_platform: Python 3.11 running on 64bit Amazon Linux 2023
  default_region: ap-northeast-1
  include_git_submodules: true
  instance_profile: null
  platform_name: null
  platform_version: null
  profile: eb-cli
  repository: null
  sc: git
  workspace_type: Application
```
While setting up my app on AWS, I encountered several issues and took note as below: <br >
1. Lesson learned: Order to setup Python, virtual environment, EB CLI.<br >
- Issue: I noticed that there was no Python under my WSL, and the instruction asked to install EB CLI under virtual environment with python.<br >
- Reason: My Python was installed under Windows, and this is the first project I started under WSL which neither Python and virtual environment were installed.<br >
- Fix: I chose to install pyenv which provide both Python and venv.<sub>[32]</sub> After that, I further installed EB CLI under virtual environment.<br >
2. Lesson learned: When I `eb init` and selected aws default region, the CLI prompts:<br >
     > You have not yet set up your credentials or your credentials are incorrect<br >
     > You must provide your credentials.<br >
     > (aws-access-id):<br >
- Issue: The Elastic Beanstalk CLI (eb) cannot find my AWS credentials.<br >
- Reason: I didn't setup my aws access key and secret<br >
- Fix: I have to create an AWS __IAM user__ with access key in aws console.<sub>[33]</sub> To do that:<br >
   1. I went to AWS console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/ <br >
   2. Selected my account on _top right_ and selected __Security credentials__ <br >
   3. On left sidebar, I selected __Dashboard__ -> __Access Management__ -> __Users__ <br >
   4. I selected __Create User__, type User name:  _eb\_cli\_user_ -> __Next__ <br >
   5. In Permission Options, I selected __Attach policies directly__. Then search and add `AdministratorAccess-AWSElasticBeanstalk`, `AmazonEC2FullAccess` -> __Next__ -> __Create user__ <br >
   6. I selected _eb\_cli\_user_ and selected __Create access key__ in Summary<br >
   7. I selected __Command Line Interface (CLI)__ -> checked __Confirmation__ -> __Next__ <br >
   8. I left _Set description tag - optional_ empty -> __Create access key__ <br >
   9. After that, I got back to linux and `aws configure` and input: <br >
      > AWS Access Key ID [None]: <access-key-id> <br >
      > AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <secret-access-key> <br >
      > Default region name [None]: <br >
      > Default output format [None]: json <br >
   10. Then I checked access key, secret key, and region setting by `aws configure list` <br >
   11. [optional]: To refresh aws cli, I `rm -rf ~/.aws/cli/cache` and restart shell by `exec $SHELL`
3. Lesson learned: After I input my AWS IAM user and access key, then I `eb init`, and the CLI prompts:<br >
   > not authorized to perform: s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls on resource: <br >
   > "arn:aws:s3:::elasticbeanstalk" because no identity-based policy allows the s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls action <br >
- Issue : Elastic Beanstalk uses an S3 bucket to store my app versions and environment data, but it failed <br >
- Reason: My IAM user (eb_cli_user) does not have permission to creates or configures S3 bucket.<br >
- Fix: I have to create permissions `s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls` at:<sub>[34]</sub><br >
   1. AWS IAM console: https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam
   2. On left sidebar, I selected __Dashboard__ -> __Access Management__ -> __Users__ <br >
   3. I selected _eb\_cli\_user_ and in __Permissions policies__, I selected __Add permissions__ -> __Create inline policy__ <br >
   4. I selected __JSON__ in _Policy editor_ and added:<br >
   ```JSON
   {
     "Version": "2012-10-17",
     "Statement": [
       {
         "Action": [
           "s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls"
         ],
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::elasticbeanstalk-*"
       }
     ]
   }
   ```
   5. I clicked __Next__ and added Policy name `s3PutBucketOwnershipControls` -> __Create policy__ <br >
## Create Project Environment on AWS and deploy the project <br >
To create environment on AWS and deploy my project, I ran `eb create`, and CLI prompts: <br >
1. Enter Environment Name (default: fastapi-songs-env): press Enter for default <br >
2. Enter DNS CNAME prefix (default: fastapi-songs-dev): press Enter for default <br >
3. Select a load balancer type: select application<br >
4. Would you like to enable Spot Fleet requests for this environment? (y/N): No<br >

## EC2 SSH
## DNS CNAME Prefix
## Load Balancer
## gunicorn
## Docker
## PostgresSQL
## psycopg2-binary
## AWS RDS Postgres
# Lessons Learned
## os
## RDS variables

# Reference
[1] [Deploying a FastAPI Application to Elastic Beanstalk](https://testdriven.io/blog/fastapi-elastic-beanstalk/#environment-variables)<br >
[2] [Explicitly define datatype in a Python function](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/explicitly-define-datatype-in-a-python-function/)<br >
[3] [FastAPI - Dependencies](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/)<br >
[4] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Session Basics](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/session_basics.html)<br >
[5] [How to Use Generators and yield in Python](https://realpython.com/introduction-to-python-generators/#understanding-the-python-yield-statement)<br >
[6] [Dependencies with yield](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/dependencies/dependencies-with-yield/)<br >
[7] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Overview](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/intro.html#documentation-overview)<br >
[8] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Engine Configuration](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/engines.html)<br >
[9] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Session API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/session_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.sessionmaker)<br >
[10] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Declarative API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/extensions/declarative/api.html#module-sqlalchemy.ext.declarative)<br >
[11] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Class Mapping API](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase.metadata)<br >
[12] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Table Configuration with Declarative](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/declarative_tables.html#orm-declarative-metadata)<br >
[13] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Describing Databases with MetaData](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/metadata.html#sqlalchemy.schema.Column)<br >
[14] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - The Type Hierarchy](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/core/type_basics.html)<br >
[15] [Column and Data Types in SQLAlchemy](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/column-and-data-types-in-sqlalchemy/)<br >
[16] [SQLAlchemy engine absolute path URL in windows](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19260067/sqlalchemy-engine-absolute-path-url-in-windows)<br >
[17] [what does the __file__ variable mean/do?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9271464/what-does-the-file-variable-mean-do)<br >
[18] [PEP 451 – A ModuleSpec Type for the Import System](https://peps.python.org/pep-0451/)<br >
[19] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.abspath(path)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.abspath)<br >
[20] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.dirname](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.dirname)<br >
[21] [Python | os.path.dirname() method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python/python-os-path-dirname-method/)<br >
[22] [os.path — Common pathname manipulations - os.path.join(path, /, *paths)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html#os.path.join)<br >
[23] [What is the purpose of Uvicorn?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71435960/what-is-the-purpose-of-uvicorn)<br >
[24] [How to run FastAPI application from Poetry?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63809553/how-to-run-fastapi-application-from-poetry)<br >
[25] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - The table, or other from clause object](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_styles.html#the-table-or-other-from-clause-object)<br >
[26] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - Declarative Table with mapped_column()](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/declarative_tables.html#orm-declarative-table)<br >
[27] [SQLAlchemy 2.0 Documentation - sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/20/orm/mapping_api.html#sqlalchemy.orm.DeclarativeBase)<br >
[28] [What is AWS Elastic Beanstalk?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/Welcome.html)<br >
[29] [aws-elastic-beanstalk-cli-setup](https://github.com/aws/aws-elastic-beanstalk-cli-setup)<br >
[30] [awsebcli 3.25](https://pypi.org/project/awsebcli/)<br >
[31] [Installing or updating to the latest version of the AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)<br >
[32] [Github - pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv)<br >
[33] [How do I get my AWS Access ID and Secret Key for EB CLI?](https://www.reddit.com/r/aws/comments/zfr0m6/how_do_i_get_my_aws_access_id_and_secret_key_for/)<br >
[34] [Managing Elastic Beanstalk user policies](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/AWSHowTo.iam.managed-policies.html)<br >
